README.md, before:

# Bitbucket Runner setup and scale script

Automate routines for Bitbucket Pipelines [self-hosted Runners][runner]


### When to use this tool?
Use this tool to set up and scale Bitbucket self-hosted runners on your own infrastructure.

### What problem does it solve?
This tool allows you to

- avoid manual setup runners in the Bitbucket UI.
- setup multiple runners at once.
- use the provided functionality for the file-based configuration, i.e., all the settings you provide in the config file.
- autoscale runners according to the current workload in the build.

### About the Bitbucket Runner
You've always been able to execute CI/CD workflows via Bitbucket Pipelines using Atlassian's infrastructure. This is the easiest way to use Bitbucket Pipelines because you don't need to host or manage any servers. We host it and manage it for you. But sometimes you need more control of your hardware, software, and the environment your builds are executed into. For example, you may need builds to access internal systems that are behind the firewall, or configure your hardware with more memory to run complex builds.

Runners allow you to execute your pipelines builds on your own infrastructure, so you have more control over your server configurations and budgets.
Here are some of the benefits of using runners.

- **Custom build configurations:** Runners allow you to configure your hardware for different types of builds. For example, if you have resource-intensive builds, using hardware with more memory can improve build execution time.
- **Access internal applications or databases:** When running pipelines on Atlassian's infrastructure, we cannot access your internal systems. If you need to run integrations tests against your internal databases or applications, you can do so with runners. Since these runners are hosted/managed by you, you can provide any access needed to internal services.
- **Hybrid workflows:** You can optimize your resources by using self-hosted runners with custom configurations for builds that require it and use Atlassian's infrastructure for other jobs. When using your own runners, we don't charge you for build minutes consumed by your runner.


### Limitation

- This script sends requests to the BITBUCKET API in scale runners up and down.
Make sure you are aware of the [BITBUCKET API request limits][BITBUCKET API request limits].
- Maximum allowed count of repository runners is equal to 100.
- Maximum allowed count of workspace runners is equal to 100.
- Maximum allowed count of runner groups is equal to 10.
- Labelling naming conventions should follow [Kubernetes conventions][Kubernetes conventions].
- If runner groups overlap e.g contain the same set of labels they will fight each other to scale the group so label sets should be unique.

### Requirements

- Operating systems supported is only Linux/amd64 with Kubernetes.
- Suggested memory for the controller is 8Gb (equal to t2.large or t3.large in [AWS instance types][AWS instance types]). More details about Bitbucket runners you could find in [BITBUCKET runners guide].

## Prerequisites
- BITBUCKET_USERNAME and [BITBUCKET_APP_PASSWORD][BITBUCKET_APP_PASSWORD] (base64 representation with repository:read, account:read, runner:write permissions) should be created and passed in `config/runners-autoscaler-deployment.yaml`
  ```
  # Python3 interactive shell
  from autoscaler.core.helpers import string_to_base64string
  string_to_base64string("your-app-password")

  or shell
  echo -n $BITBUCKET_APP_PASSWORD | base64
  ```

- [optional] setup [kubernetes-dashboard][kubernetes-dashboard] to monitor your cluster

- [optional] details how to [set up AWS EKS cluster with eksctl cli][setup cluster eksctl]
  ```
  eksctl create cluster --name ${NAME_CLUSTER} --version 1.21 --region us-east-1 --zones us-east-1b,us-east-1c --nodegroup-name ${NODE_GROUP_NAME} --node-type t3.large --nodes 2 --nodes-min 1 --nodes-max 2
  ```

## How to run

### Deployment (in Kubernetes cluster)

Create in `config/` folder these files:

`config/runners-autoscaler-rbac.yaml`,

`config/runners-autoscaler-cm.yaml`,

`config/runners-autoscaler-cm-job.yaml`,

`config/runners-autoscaler-secret.yaml`,

`config/runners-autoscaler-deployment.yaml`,

`config/runners-autoscaler-deployment-cleaner.yaml`

based on templates provided inside this folder. 

Fill them with needed variables (these variables decorated with `<...>` inside template files).

Next run commands below: 
```
# Create namespace
kubectl apply -f config/runners-autoscaler-namespace.yaml

# Create RBAC configuration
kubectl apply -f config/runners-autoscaler-rbac.yaml

# Create config map - modify to suit your needs
kubectl apply -f config/runners-autoscaler-cm.yaml

# Create job config map
kubectl apply -f config/runners-autoscaler-cm-job.yaml

# Create secret
kubectl apply -f config/runners-autoscaler-secret.yaml

# Create deployment for autoscaler
kubectl apply -f config/runners-autoscaler-deployment.yaml

# Create deployment for cleaner
kubectl apply -f config/runners-autoscaler-deployment-cleaner.yaml
```

## Runner config details
In `config/runners-autoscaler-cm.yaml` you can tune `runners_config.yaml` parameters

```yaml
groups:
  - name: "Runner repository group"       # Name of the Runner displayed in the Bitbucket Runner UI.
    workspace: "myworkspace"              # Name of the workspace the Runner is added to. 
    repository: "my-awesome-repository"   # Name of the repository the Runner is added to. Optional: Provide the repository name if you want the Runner to be added at the repository level.
    labels:
      - "demo1"                           # Labels for the Runner.
      - "test2"                           # Labels for the Runner.
    namespace: "runner-group-1"           # Kubernetes namespace to set up the Runner on.
    strategy: "percentageRunnersIdle"     # Type of the strategy workflow.
    parameters:
      min: 1  # recommended minimum 1 must be in UI to prevent pipeline fails, when new build is starting
      max: 10  # maximum allowed runners count
      scale_up_threshold: 0.8  # The percentage of busy runners at which the number of desired runners are re-evaluated to scale up
      scale_down_threshold: 0.2  # The percentage of busy runners at which the number of desired runners are re-evaluated to scale up
      scale_up_multiplier: 1.5  #  scale_up_multiplier > 1  speed to scale up
      scale_down_multiplier: 0.5  #  0 < scale_down_multiplier < 1  speed to scale down

constants:  # autoscaler parameters available for tuning
  default_sleep_time_runner_setup: 5  # seconds. Time between runners creation.
  default_sleep_time_runner_delete: 5  # seconds. Time between runners deletion.
  runner_api_polling_interval: 600  # seconds. Time between requests to Bitbucket API.
  runner_cool_down_period: 300  # seconds. Time reserved for runner to set up.

```

## Documentation

This script allows you to automate routines for Bitbucket Pipelines self-hosted Runners.
With this script you can, create runners on Bitbucket Cloud via API requests, setup Kubernetes jobs on your host, connect Bitbucket Cloud runners with Kubernetes jobs, and provide artifacts kubespec files for created Bitbucket Cloud runners.
This scaling tool supports the next types of the workflow (strategy):
- percentageRunnersIdle

## percentageRunnersIdle strategy

The Runner Autoscaler Controller (next autoscaler) will poll Bitbucket Cloud API based on the configuration sync period for the number of available ONLINE/BUSY runners which live in the workspace/repository and scale based on the settings provided by autoscaler configuration file.
The autoscaler automatically scales the number of Jobs relates to the Bitbucket Runner in the Kubernetes Namespace based on custom metrics.

Implementation based on the next scaling algorithm:
The Runner Autoscaler Controller reads the configuration file provided by a user, periodically polls Bitbucket Cloud Runner API for available runners and automatically increases or decreases the count of "ONLINE" runners.
At start, the autoscaler checks for the min and max count of "ONLINE" runners.
If less than min - creates a new up to min count, if max already reached - just notify a user about max reached.

The limit runners count per workspace/repository is 100.

Then the autoscaler calculates runners scale threshold value: 
```
runners scale threshold value = BUSY_ONLINE_RUNNERS / ALL_ONLINE_RUNNERS
```
and compares it with scale_up_threshold and scale_down_threshold from the configuration file.

If runners scale threshold value more than scale_up_threshold, it means that most "ONLINE" runners are BUSY (executing some pipelines job) and new runners will be created.
If runners scale threshold value less than scale_down_threshold, it means that most "ONLINE" runners are in IDLE state and the count of online runners should be decreased to min count.

A speed to increase and decrease the count of runners could be turned with scale_up_multiplier and scale_down_multiplier values in the configuration file.

Finally, desired count of runners calculated by autoscaler:
```
desired count of runners = ALL_ONLINE_RUNNERS * scale_up_multiplier  # scale up case
or
desired count of runners = ALL_ONLINE_RUNNERS * scale_down_multiplier # scale down case
```


### An example

a user starts autoscaler with configuration previously provided (Bitbucket workspace has 0 runners).


#### *With the first autoscaler attempt:*

The autoscaler set up a new 1 (one) "ONLINE" runner.

Then a user runs pipeline that uses this runner, so 1 (one) BUSY runner present.

The autoscaler calculates **runners scale threshold** value as BUSY runners / ONLINE runners = 1/1 = **1.0**

In the configuration file value of scale_up_threshold = 0.8, the autoscaler compare it with calculated value 1.0, so new runners should be created.

Then the autoscaler calculates **desired count of runners** = ONLINE runners * scale_up_multiplier = ceil(1 * 1.5) = 2

Action: So, autoscaler should automatically create +1 ONLINE runner in addition to the existing 1 BUSY runner.


#### *With the next autoscaler attempt:*


The Bitbucket workspace has 2 ONLINE runners (1 BUSY and 1 IDLE).

User runs pipeline that still uses one runner, so BUSY runners 1.

The autoscaler calculates **runners scale threshold** value BUSY/ONLINE = 1/2 = **0.5**

So, value between scale_down_threshold < runners scale threshold value < scale_up_threshold (0.2 < 0.5 < 0.8)

Action: nothing to do.


#### *With the next autoscaler attempt:*


The Bitbucket workspace has 2 ONLINE runners (2 IDLE).

Because, a user’s pipeline job finished, so BUSY runners 0.

The autoscaler calculates **runners scale threshold** value BUSY/ONLINE = 0/2 = **0**

The value 0 under the scale_down_threshold = 0.2, so count of runners should be decreased.

Then **desired count of runners** = ONLINE runners * scale_down_multiplier = floor(2 * 0.5) = 1

And autoscaler should automatically delete 1 ONLINE (IDLE) runner.

## Scaling Kubernetes Nodes

Your kubernetes cluster will need to have a node horizontal autoscaler configured.

We recommend using a tool that is optimized for large batch or job based workloads such as [escalator][escalator].

Please check the [deployment docs][escalator-docs].

If you are using AWS, you'll need to use this deployment `aws/escalator-deployment-aws.yaml` instead of the regular one.

## Configuring Kubernetes Nodes

In the job config map `runners-autoscaler-cm-job.template.yaml`, you will notice there's a `nodeSelector` in there.

Therefore, the nodes where the runners will be running on need to have a label that matches it. In AWS EKS, this can be configured via [EKS Managed Node Groups][eks-node-groups].

This label also must match the one you configured in [escalator config map][escalator-cm].

## Tweaking Memory/Cpu resources
Inside `runners-autoscaler-cm-job.template.yaml`, you will notice that the `resources` tag is defined.

It might worthing tweaking the memory/cpu limits according to your needs.

For example, if you want to use an `8Gb` instance size, it might not worth using `4Gi` since it will take slighly more than half of the allocatable memory therefore it would allow only 1 runner pod per instance.

## Cleaner
The Runner Autoscaler Cleaner (next cleaner) is the application configured in `deployment-cleaner.template.yaml` that allows you automatically clean (delete) unhealthy runners and linked jobs.

Implementation based on the next algorithm:

Check runners on Bitbucket Cloud, that do not have status "ONLINE".

Check for the runners, that was created more than some period of time ago. You can tune it with "runner_cool_down_period" variable from ConfigMap runner-config.

For each runner found get it UUID and delete.

Find jobs on kubernetes labeled with runners UUIDs if any.

Delete jobs found since they are unhealthy.

Repeat cleaner logic after some period of time. You can tune it with "runner_api_polling_interval" variable from ConfigMap runner-config.

## Links

- https://support.atlassian.com/bitbucket-cloud/docs/runners/
- https://support.atlassian.com/bitbucket-cloud/docs/configure-your-runner-in-bitbucket-pipelines-yml


## Support
If you’d like help with this tool, or you have an issue or feature request, [let us know on Community][community].

If you’re reporting an issue, please include:

- the version of the tool
- relevant logs and error messages
- steps to reproduce


## License
Copyright (c) 2021 Atlassian and others.
Apache 2.0 licensed, see [LICENSE.txt](LICENSE.txt) file.

[eks-node-groups]: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/managed-node-groups.html
[escalator-cm]: https://github.com/atlassian/escalator/blob/master/docs/deployment/escalator-cm.yaml#L10-L11
[escalator-docs]: https://github.com/atlassian/escalator/tree/master/docs/deployment
[escalator]: https://github.com/atlassian/escalator/
[community]: https://community.atlassian.com/t5/forums/postpage/board-id/bitbucket-questions?add-tags=pipelines,pipes,runner,autoscaler
[runner]: https://support.atlassian.com/bitbucket-cloud/docs/runners/
[BITBUCKET_APP_PASSWORD]: https://support.atlassian.com/bitbucket-cloud/docs/app-passwords
[BITBUCKET API request limits]: https://support.atlassian.com/bitbucket-cloud/docs/api-request-limits/
[BITBUCKET runners guide]: https://support.atlassian.com/bitbucket-cloud/docs/runners/
[kubernetes-dashboard]: https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/access-application-cluster/web-ui-dashboard/
[Kubernetes conventions]: https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/overview/working-with-objects/labels/#syntax-and-character-set
[setup cluster eksctl]: https://eksctl.io/usage/creating-and-managing-clusters/
[AWS instance types]: https://aws.amazon.com/ec2/instance-types/

Commit message:

PIPES-1089: Implement individual resources configuration for a kubernetes job template in each runner group.

README.md, after:

# Bitbucket Runner setup and scale script

Automate routines for Bitbucket Pipelines [self-hosted Runners][runner]


### When to use this tool?
Use this tool to set up and scale Bitbucket self-hosted runners on your own infrastructure.

### What problem does it solve?
This tool allows you to

- avoid manual setup runners in the Bitbucket UI.
- setup multiple runners at once.
- use the provided functionality for the file-based configuration, i.e., all the settings you provide in the config file.
- autoscale runners according to the current workload in the build.

### About the Bitbucket Runner
You've always been able to execute CI/CD workflows via Bitbucket Pipelines using Atlassian's infrastructure. This is the easiest way to use Bitbucket Pipelines because you don't need to host or manage any servers. We host it and manage it for you. But sometimes you need more control of your hardware, software, and the environment your builds are executed into. For example, you may need builds to access internal systems that are behind the firewall, or configure your hardware with more memory to run complex builds.

Runners allow you to execute your pipelines builds on your own infrastructure, so you have more control over your server configurations and budgets.
Here are some of the benefits of using runners.

- **Custom build configurations:** Runners allow you to configure your hardware for different types of builds. For example, if you have resource-intensive builds, using hardware with more memory can improve build execution time.
- **Access internal applications or databases:** When running pipelines on Atlassian's infrastructure, we cannot access your internal systems. If you need to run integrations tests against your internal databases or applications, you can do so with runners. Since these runners are hosted/managed by you, you can provide any access needed to internal services.
- **Hybrid workflows:** You can optimize your resources by using self-hosted runners with custom configurations for builds that require it and use Atlassian's infrastructure for other jobs. When using your own runners, we don't charge you for build minutes consumed by your runner.


### Limitation

- This script sends requests to the BITBUCKET API in scale runners up and down.
Make sure you are aware of the [BITBUCKET API request limits][BITBUCKET API request limits].
- Maximum allowed count of repository runners is equal to 100.
- Maximum allowed count of workspace runners is equal to 100.
- Maximum allowed count of runner groups is equal to 10.
- Labelling naming conventions should follow [Kubernetes conventions][Kubernetes conventions].
- If runner groups overlap e.g contain the same set of labels they will fight each other to scale the group so label sets should be unique.

### Requirements

- Operating systems supported is only Linux/amd64 with Kubernetes.
- Suggested memory for the controller is 8Gb (equal to t2.large or t3.large in [AWS instance types][AWS instance types]). More details about Bitbucket runners you could find in [BITBUCKET runners guide].

## Prerequisites
- BITBUCKET_USERNAME and [BITBUCKET_APP_PASSWORD][BITBUCKET_APP_PASSWORD] (base64 representation with repository:read, account:read, runner:write permissions) should be created and passed in `config/runners-autoscaler-deployment.yaml`
  ```
  # Python3 interactive shell
  from autoscaler.core.helpers import string_to_base64string
  string_to_base64string("your-app-password")

  or shell
  echo -n $BITBUCKET_APP_PASSWORD | base64
  ```

- [optional] setup [kubernetes-dashboard][kubernetes-dashboard] to monitor your cluster

- [optional] details how to [set up AWS EKS cluster with eksctl cli][setup cluster eksctl]
  ```
  eksctl create cluster --name ${NAME_CLUSTER} --version 1.21 --region us-east-1 --zones us-east-1b,us-east-1c --nodegroup-name ${NODE_GROUP_NAME} --node-type t3.large --nodes 2 --nodes-min 1 --nodes-max 2
  ```

## How to run

### Deployment (in Kubernetes cluster)

Create in `config/` folder these files:

`config/runners-autoscaler-rbac.yaml`,

`config/runners-autoscaler-cm.yaml`,

`config/runners-autoscaler-cm-job.yaml`,

`config/runners-autoscaler-secret.yaml`,

`config/runners-autoscaler-deployment.yaml`,

`config/runners-autoscaler-deployment-cleaner.yaml`

based on templates provided inside this folder. 

Fill them with needed variables (these variables decorated with `<...>` inside template files).

Next run commands below: 
```
# Create namespace
kubectl apply -f config/runners-autoscaler-namespace.yaml

# Create RBAC configuration
kubectl apply -f config/runners-autoscaler-rbac.yaml

# Create config map - modify to suit your needs
kubectl apply -f config/runners-autoscaler-cm.yaml

# Create job config map
kubectl apply -f config/runners-autoscaler-cm-job.yaml

# Create secret
kubectl apply -f config/runners-autoscaler-secret.yaml

# Create deployment for autoscaler
kubectl apply -f config/runners-autoscaler-deployment.yaml

# Create deployment for cleaner
kubectl apply -f config/runners-autoscaler-deployment-cleaner.yaml
```

## Runner config details
In `config/runners-autoscaler-cm.yaml` you can tune `runners_config.yaml` parameters

```yaml
groups:
  - name: "Runner repository group"       # Name of the Runner displayed in the Bitbucket Runner UI.
    workspace: "myworkspace"              # Name of the workspace the Runner is added to.
    repository: "my-awesome-repository"   # Name of the repository the Runner is added to. Optional: Provide the repository name if you want the Runner to be added at the repository level.
    labels:
      - "demo1"                           # Labels for the Runner.
      - "test2"                           # Labels for the Runner.
    namespace: "runner-group-1"           # Kubernetes namespace to set up the Runner on.
    strategy: "percentageRunnersIdle"     # Type of the strategy workflow.
    strategy_data:  # Set up strategy data for percentageRunnersIdle strategy.

      # Set up the parameters for runners to create/delete via Bitbucket API.
      parameters: 
        min: 1  # recommended minimum 1 must be in UI to prevent pipeline fails, when new build is starting.
        max: 10  # maximum allowed runners count.
        scale_up_threshold: 0.8  # The percentage of busy runners at which the number of desired runners are re-evaluated to scale up.
        scale_down_threshold: 0.2  # The percentage of busy runners at which the number of desired runners are re-evaluated to scale up.
        scale_up_multiplier: 1.5  #  scale_up_multiplier > 1  speed to scale up.
        scale_down_multiplier: 0.5  #  0 < scale_down_multiplier < 1  speed to scale down.

      # Set up the resources for kubernetes job template.
      # This section is optional. If not provided the default values for memory "4Gi" and cpu "1000m" for requests and limits will be used.
      # More information https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/manage-resources-containers/#requests-and-limits
      resources:  # autoscaler kubernetes job template resources available for tuning.
        requests:
          memory: "2Gi"
          cpu: "1000m"
        limits:
          memory: "2Gi"
          cpu: "1000m"

constants:  # autoscaler parameters available for tuning.
  default_sleep_time_runner_setup: 5  # seconds. Time between runners creation.
  default_sleep_time_runner_delete: 5  # seconds. Time between runners deletion.
  runner_api_polling_interval: 600  # seconds. Time between requests to Bitbucket API.
  runner_cool_down_period: 300  # seconds. Time reserved for runner to set up.

```

## Documentation

This script allows you to automate routines for Bitbucket Pipelines self-hosted Runners.
With this script you can, create runners on Bitbucket Cloud via API requests, setup Kubernetes jobs on your host, connect Bitbucket Cloud runners with Kubernetes jobs, and provide artifacts kubespec files for created Bitbucket Cloud runners.
This scaling tool supports the next types of the workflow (strategy):
- percentageRunnersIdle

## percentageRunnersIdle strategy

The Runner Autoscaler Controller (next autoscaler) will poll Bitbucket Cloud API based on the configuration sync period for the number of available ONLINE/BUSY runners which live in the workspace/repository and scale based on the settings provided by autoscaler configuration file.
The autoscaler automatically scales the number of Jobs relates to the Bitbucket Runner in the Kubernetes Namespace based on custom metrics.

Implementation based on the next scaling algorithm:
The Runner Autoscaler Controller reads the configuration file provided by a user, periodically polls Bitbucket Cloud Runner API for available runners and automatically increases or decreases the count of "ONLINE" runners.
At start, the autoscaler checks for the min and max count of "ONLINE" runners.
If less than min - creates a new up to min count, if max already reached - just notify a user about max reached.

The limit runners count per workspace/repository is 100.

Then the autoscaler calculates runners scale threshold value: 
```
runners scale threshold value = BUSY_ONLINE_RUNNERS / ALL_ONLINE_RUNNERS
```
and compares it with scale_up_threshold and scale_down_threshold from the configuration file.

If runners scale threshold value more than scale_up_threshold, it means that most "ONLINE" runners are BUSY (executing some pipelines job) and new runners will be created.
If runners scale threshold value less than scale_down_threshold, it means that most "ONLINE" runners are in IDLE state and the count of online runners should be decreased to min count.

A speed to increase and decrease the count of runners could be turned with scale_up_multiplier and scale_down_multiplier values in the configuration file.

Finally, desired count of runners calculated by autoscaler:
```
desired count of runners = ALL_ONLINE_RUNNERS * scale_up_multiplier  # scale up case
or
desired count of runners = ALL_ONLINE_RUNNERS * scale_down_multiplier # scale down case
```


### An example

a user starts autoscaler with configuration previously provided (Bitbucket workspace has 0 runners).


#### *With the first autoscaler attempt:*

The autoscaler set up a new 1 (one) "ONLINE" runner.

Then a user runs pipeline that uses this runner, so 1 (one) BUSY runner present.

The autoscaler calculates **runners scale threshold** value as BUSY runners / ONLINE runners = 1/1 = **1.0**

In the configuration file value of scale_up_threshold = 0.8, the autoscaler compare it with calculated value 1.0, so new runners should be created.

Then the autoscaler calculates **desired count of runners** = ONLINE runners * scale_up_multiplier = ceil(1 * 1.5) = 2

Action: So, autoscaler should automatically create +1 ONLINE runner in addition to the existing 1 BUSY runner.


#### *With the next autoscaler attempt:*


The Bitbucket workspace has 2 ONLINE runners (1 BUSY and 1 IDLE).

User runs pipeline that still uses one runner, so BUSY runners 1.

The autoscaler calculates **runners scale threshold** value BUSY/ONLINE = 1/2 = **0.5**

So, value between scale_down_threshold < runners scale threshold value < scale_up_threshold (0.2 < 0.5 < 0.8)

Action: nothing to do.


#### *With the next autoscaler attempt:*


The Bitbucket workspace has 2 ONLINE runners (2 IDLE).

Because, a user’s pipeline job finished, so BUSY runners 0.

The autoscaler calculates **runners scale threshold** value BUSY/ONLINE = 0/2 = **0**

The value 0 under the scale_down_threshold = 0.2, so count of runners should be decreased.

Then **desired count of runners** = ONLINE runners * scale_down_multiplier = floor(2 * 0.5) = 1

And autoscaler should automatically delete 1 ONLINE (IDLE) runner.

## Scaling Kubernetes Nodes

Your kubernetes cluster will need to have a node horizontal autoscaler configured.

We recommend using a tool that is optimized for large batch or job based workloads such as [escalator][escalator].

Please check the [deployment docs][escalator-docs].

If you are using AWS, you'll need to use this deployment `aws/escalator-deployment-aws.yaml` instead of the regular one.

## Configuring Kubernetes Nodes

In the job config map `runners-autoscaler-cm-job.template.yaml`, you will notice there's a `nodeSelector` in there.

Therefore, the nodes where the runners will be running on need to have a label that matches it. In AWS EKS, this can be configured via [EKS Managed Node Groups][eks-node-groups].

This label also must match the one you configured in [escalator config map][escalator-cm].

## Tweaking Memory/Cpu resources
Inside `runners-autoscaler-cm-job.template.yaml`, you will notice that the `resources` tag is defined.

It might worthing tweaking the memory/cpu limits according to your needs.

For example, if you want to use an `8Gb` instance size, it might not worth using `4Gi` since it will take slighly more than half of the allocatable memory therefore it would allow only 1 runner pod per instance.

## Cleaner
The Runner Autoscaler Cleaner (next cleaner) is the application configured in `deployment-cleaner.template.yaml` that allows you automatically clean (delete) unhealthy runners and linked jobs.

Implementation based on the next algorithm:

Check runners on Bitbucket Cloud, that do not have status "ONLINE".

Check for the runners, that was created more than some period of time ago. You can tune it with "runner_cool_down_period" variable from ConfigMap runner-config.

For each runner found get it UUID and delete.

Find jobs on kubernetes labeled with runners UUIDs if any.

Delete jobs found since they are unhealthy.

Repeat cleaner logic after some period of time. You can tune it with "runner_api_polling_interval" variable from ConfigMap runner-config.

## Links

- https://support.atlassian.com/bitbucket-cloud/docs/runners/
- https://support.atlassian.com/bitbucket-cloud/docs/configure-your-runner-in-bitbucket-pipelines-yml


## Support
If you’d like help with this tool, or you have an issue or feature request, [let us know on Community][community].

If you’re reporting an issue, please include:

- the version of the tool
- relevant logs and error messages
- steps to reproduce


## License
Copyright (c) 2021 Atlassian and others.
Apache 2.0 licensed, see [LICENSE.txt](LICENSE.txt) file.

[eks-node-groups]: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/managed-node-groups.html
[escalator-cm]: https://github.com/atlassian/escalator/blob/master/docs/deployment/escalator-cm.yaml#L10-L11
[escalator-docs]: https://github.com/atlassian/escalator/tree/master/docs/deployment
[escalator]: https://github.com/atlassian/escalator/
[community]: https://community.atlassian.com/t5/forums/postpage/board-id/bitbucket-questions?add-tags=pipelines,pipes,runner,autoscaler
[runner]: https://support.atlassian.com/bitbucket-cloud/docs/runners/
[BITBUCKET_APP_PASSWORD]: https://support.atlassian.com/bitbucket-cloud/docs/app-passwords
[BITBUCKET API request limits]: https://support.atlassian.com/bitbucket-cloud/docs/api-request-limits/
[BITBUCKET runners guide]: https://support.atlassian.com/bitbucket-cloud/docs/runners/
[kubernetes-dashboard]: https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/access-application-cluster/web-ui-dashboard/
[Kubernetes conventions]: https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/overview/working-with-objects/labels/#syntax-and-character-set
[setup cluster eksctl]: https://eksctl.io/usage/creating-and-managing-clusters/
[AWS instance types]: https://aws.amazon.com/ec2/instance-types/
